Hello hello and here we go.
Let's start the training.
So first of all we're going to make sure that the train variable of our environment is set to the train
mode that is this train viable here which was already initialized to true meaning that indeed we are
in the train mode.
So that's the first thing we need to do.
And now that we are in the train mode Well we are almost ready to start the big training for you.
But before we have to get our moral because remember that this brain object is the whole object of the
brain class that we built here.
But inside this brain class and therefore inside these brain object.
Well we have a variable you know a variable of the object that is the full model itself you know composed
of not only the neural network the brain but also the optimizer which is the second most important element
in a neural network because that's the optimizer which will update the weights at each iteration to
reduce the last function over time.
So it's important not to confuse the brain which is the neural network with the model composed of not
only the neural network but also the optimizer and the US.
So that's why right now we have to get our moral and to get our model Well it's very simple since we
already created our brain object.
We're going to get it this way.
This model here is a new variable and introducing and it will be of course to the moral attribute of
the brain object.
All right.
And now we have the full model.
Now we have the new one at work plus plus plus the optimizer.
And so we are ready to start the training.
So let's do this story.
We actually have two options.
The safe option and the not safe option which is to make sure again to check we are indeed in the training
mode and you know to do that we can simply start with an if on train just like that because you know
this means if on the train the train mode of our environment is equal to true.
And so if that's the case well we can train you know we can start to train.
So this is the safe option but it's optional.
I'm just adding this so that you know if you are implementing some complex files and playing with many
servers at the time and combining some training in some simulations Well it's important to have this
safe if condition that will check that you are indeed in training mode.
OK.
And then now we can start the big training for you.
And so I'm going to loop over with a for loop or all the books in the range from 1 to.
Of course the total number of epochs which I remind is a parameter we initialized at 1000.
I'm still not sure if we're going to train for 1000 bucks that seems maybe a bit too much.
Maybe we'll do 100.
We'll decide that at the end.
Okay.
And then Colleen and here we go.
Let's train our AI and let's make it smart.
So what do we have to start with.
Well I remind that this is going to be a long code section with no worries in the next tutorial I will
reveal the structure of the general AI framework you know we'll have code section tiles inside this
big training loop with capital letters which means that indeed inside this dreamful there's still the
general steps of the process you have to follow to build a deeper enforcement learning kind of a way
to solve a business problem.
But before that we have to do some couple things first.
You know initialize the toll reward obtained by the AI over the round.
And of course I'm initializing this to zero.
Then of course also we have to initialize the last to zero and we initialize this as a float because
a loss is the result of some computations then we're going to initialize the first month of the training
you know just the month at which we're going to start the training.
And you know this can be any month.
I wanted to start with the first month January but actually we can start anytime.
So when I'm simply going to do is get a random integer between 0 and 12.
And so I'm getting here first.
Remember the random module by and by and then from this random module I'm going to get that once again
the rand function which is going to take two arguments to integers.
The first one is going to be zero and the second one is going to be 12 because it is excluded so that
this will give me a random integer between 0 included and 12 excluded.
All right.
And that will allow us to start at any month of the year.
Perfect.
All right then next step what is next step.
Well the next step is to make sure that we have a fully reset environment.
You know in case this is not the first training you are running well your environment object might not
be reset.
So here we're going to make sure we reset our environment and to do this.
I'm using of course the reset method which is indeed a method of our environment.
Right this is the first method of date on.
But if we scroll down Indeed we have the reset method here.
This is what I just got.
OK.
And then so then remember this reset method let's have a look at it again this reset method takes one
argument which is new month but that's is the month we're going to start the training.
And so here in our training implementation we'll I'm going to input that this new month argument of
the reset method is going to be exactly this Neumont here which is the result of a random integer taken
from 0 to 11.
Okay perfect.
Now we're going to make sure as well that the game over variable is false because indeed if this is
not the first training you're running well maybe your game over a variable is set to true.
So before we started training we need to force it to be called false because indeed when we started
training the game is just starting.
Then we're going to get the actual state of the environment and to do this well we have the other method
you know just below the reset method which is the observed method.
And once again this is a method that gives us at any time the current state the last reward in whether
the game is over.
And so perfect that's exactly what we want right now.
You know we're going to start the training in a specific state and that specific state we can get it
thanks to the observer method.
OK.
However since right now we are just starting the training and therefore we have not received any reward
yet.
Well from this observed method we're only going to get the current state.
We don't care about the last word because there is no last word and we don't care either about game
over because we already initialized that so we just want the current state.
And the trick in Python to just get one horrible among several ones one are returned by function.
The trick to do this is for us to get the name of the variable you want so as to introduce it in a new
variable also current state.
Here is a new variable and then I'm going to add after a comma an underscore and then remember the observed
method returns three elements the reward end game over.
We just want this one so I'm going to add an underscore for reward and an underscore for Game over.
So here I already add the for word.
And now I'm adding the underscore game over meaning that we will only get the current state from the
call of our observe method of the environment.
Right.
So that gives me the current state.
And now we have almost everything initialized correctly.
So I'm going to go by the way this section initialising all the variables of both the environment and
the training so that will be in the general framework.
And now the last thing we need to do before we run all these iterations to get the predictions compare
them with Target and reduce the last with our optimized through stochastic rate and the.
You know because we're using atom optimizer.
Well the last thing we need to do here is just to initialize the variable which will loop over the iterations
so not to confuse here epoch and iteration or timestep that's the same the epoch will be a period of
five months and the iteration the times that we hear will be each minute happening during those five
month and it is at each minute that our AI will predict an action to play which will compare to a target
incur the loss and then update the weight with our optimizer.
But remember that we're going to do that through experience replay.
Therefore in some batches we're inside batches.
You have to understand that the time step is the minute.
All right.
So maybe put that in common to remember this.
The book will be a long period of five month and the timestep will be one minute.
OK so now that everybody understands well we all know that we have to initialize this to zero.
This will be the first minute of the fool five month Epoque.
And so now that's when we can start this second which will loop over all the iterations there is all
the minutes during that five month period which is our epoch.
So according to you what are we going to do.
Well our natural thinking would be to do that with a follow up you know we just do that with a follow
up for I in range 0 and lifetime 30 times 24 times 60 because that's the number of minutes in five months.
However there is a little trap.
We also need to make sure that when we start again a new iteration we also need to make sure that the
game is not over and that we can not specify this in a for loop so we can't use a follow up here and
said we're going to use a while loop and therefore here is what we're going to do.
We're going to do the following while loop which will not only iterate through all the time steps from
0 to the number of minutes and five month with which we'll also check that indeed the game is not over.
While not game over here because you know game over is a boolean variable.
So this is equal to true or false.
And writing this as not game over means exactly.
Well Game over equals equals false.
So while not game over.
And then of course while timestep is lower than the total number of minutes in a full epoch and the
netbook is five months.
So we're going to get now the number of minutes and five month which is five times thirty because we
have on average 30 days in one month.
So five months 30 days.
Then times the number of hours in a day which is 24 and then of course the number of minutes in an hour
which is 60.
All right so this gives us exactly the number of minutes the total number of minutes in five months
and that's going to be the fool epoch time period.
All right.
And so now perfect we can move on to the next step which is to start the real deal that is doing the
exploration versus exploitation.
If we do exploration we're going to play some actions rationally and if we do some exploitation the
actions will be the result of the brain's predictions.
And in that case of course we'll compute the loss between the predictions and the targets and update
our weight to reduce it through experience really.
So let's do all this in the next tutorial.
I can't wait to do this very important step with you.
And of course I will highlight the general AI framework.
So let's tackle this.
And until then enjoy AI.